Initial documentation for `dart pub unpack` (#5775)
dart-lang/site-www: src/content/tools/pub/cmd/pub-unpack.md

---
title: dart pub unpack
description: Downloads a package and unpacks its contents in place.
---

:::version-note
The `unpack` subcommand was introduced in Dart 3.4.
To download the archive of a package with an earlier SDK,

> visit the **Versions** tab of a package on the pub.dev site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visit the **Versions** tab of a package on the [pub.dev site]({{site.pub}}).
```

> visit the **Versions** tab of a package on the pub.dev site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visit the **Versions** tab of a package on the [pub.dev site]({{site.pub}}).
```

:::

_Unpack_ is one of the commands of the [pub tool](/tools/pub/cmd).

```plaintext
$ dart pub unpack <package>[:descriptor] [--[no-]resolve] [--output=<output directory>] [--[no-]force] [other options]
```

> This command downloads the specified `<package>`
> according to the specified descriptor then
> extracts its contents to a `<package>-<version>` directory.

Reviewer: Mentioning the `descriptor` first thing here made me think it's necessary to the command (like, the command functions _according_ to the descriptor makes it sound like it relies on that input), but reading a couple more sentences down shows that's not the case. I think leaving it out of this initial summary would be better:

```suggestion
This command downloads the specified `<package>` and
extracts its contents to a `<package>-<version>` directory.
```

Then, (if you remove the `--no-resolve` paragraphs like I suggested below) the very next thing will be the explanation of the `descriptor` anyway.

For example, the following command downloads and extracts the
latest stable version of `package:http` from the [pub.dev site]({{site.pub}}),
to the current directory:

```console
$ dart pub unpack http
```

> By default, pub runs `dart pub get` after the package is extracted
> to resolve the package's dependencies.
> To disable the automatic resolution, pass the `--no-resolve` option:
> 
> ```console
> $ dart pub unpack http --no-resolve
> ```

Reviewer: Since this is covered word for word in the options sections, I'd remove it from here
```suggestion
```

add a source descriptor after the package name and a colon.
For example, the following command downloads the `1.2.0` release
of `package:http` from the pub.dev site:

```console
$ dart pub unpack http:1.2.0
```

The source descriptor supports more configuration
with the same syntax as `dart pub add`.
To learn more about source descriptors and their syntax, check out
the [source descriptor][] documentation for `dart pub add`.

[source descriptor]: /tools/pub/cmd/pub-add#source-descriptor

## Options

For options that apply to all pub commands, check out
[Global options](/tools/pub/cmd#global-options).

### `--force` or `-f` {:#force-option}

Overwrite existing folders that conflict
with the package folder or its contents during extraction.

### `--[no-]resolve {:#resolve-option}

By default, `dart pub get` runs automatically to complete package resolution
after downloading and unpacking a package.
To disable automatic resolution,
specify the `--no-resolve` flag:

```console
$ dart pub unpack http --no-resolve
```

### `--output=<dir>` or `-o <dir>` {:#output-option}

By default, extract the package to the current directory (`.`).

> To change the directory the package are extracted to,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the directory the package is extracted to,
```
